I grab her by the hair and yank her head to the side, pressing my lips to her neck, teasing her with my breath, my teeth, and little flicks of my tongue as I speak. "Maybe," I murmur, as she squirms and mewls frantically in my arms, "that's on account of the cute girl I got in my lap, and *not* the goddamn *help,* Vi."

"Ahhh! Ahhh, God, stop, you bitch—"

The thing that separates a torturer from a thug is understanding the human body. All a thug really knows is people scream when you smash their kneecaps — pain is the only tool they know how to wield, and bluntly at that. And I won't lie, sometimes that really is enough.

But a real torturer knows about all the other secret little sensations that bring the human body suffering. How to find a person's weak points and exploit them, slowly, carefully, and ruthlessly. There are things far worse than pain and violation, and sometimes one of them is the *anticipation* of pain and violation. You handle someone right, and you can make that anticipation build and build and build until it is fucking unbearable and you can do it all without leaving a mark on them. Shit, if you know what you're doing, you can make *anything* unbearable. There's only so much physical pain the human body is capable of feeling, but the mind? Torture of the spirit is a whole different game.

You can torture people with pain, sure. But you can torture them with words, taunts and stories and mockery carefully crafted to rip their soul to shreds. You can torture them with ideas, an idle word or visual that worms its way in through the ears or eyes and take root deep in the mind, slowly metastasizing into a cancer of panic and fear until they're begging you, screaming and begging and crying and banging on the cell door to know that whatever horrible image they have in their heads isn't true. It works best on imaginative people — poets, artists, playwrights, novelists, paranoid bluebloods — but the best part is that they do most of the work for you. The human brain is built to catastrophize, to fill in the blanks with the worst possibilities it can conjure up, and sometimes, those are worse than anything you could ever do to a body. And if you're very, very skilled indeed, you can torture someone to the brink of madness without them even realizing they're being tortured — sometimes, without even realizing that you're the enemy at all.

But my personal favorite? You can torture people with pleasure. And when someone's body knows your own so well that just hearing your voice feels like you've slipped your hand into their skirt, it magnifies the torment enough to turn a papercut into a deep, festering laceration.

I hate those new-fangled galvanic contraptions Daisy was so fond of, truth be told. There's a time and a place for caressing the skin with a bit of current, but nowadays all anyone has to do is strap you in and turn the knob until the screams get loud enough. There's no art in it — me, I can take you right from smugly defiant to sobbing and begging for mercy without so much as a single scream, and I take some pride in that. Screams are overrated.

No, a *real* torturer gets to know her victim, figures out what makes her tick, learns her like a _tian bèi_ learns a machine — slowly, carefully, respectfully — before she starts pulling chips and twisting vacuum tubes and soldering wires. There's all sorts of things can go wrong. Pushing the wrong button can be as counterproductive as a fresh shot of opium. The last thing you want is a determined, spiteful victim with an axe to grind: you'd be amazed what a fragile waif of a tavern wench will grit her teeth through if you give her enough reason and adrenaline.

Worst of all though, if you're not damn careful, you'll end up making her dissociate. That's what thugs *really* don't get. Most people, when things get bad enough, they'll turn off and pull away from the world, hide out in their own mind, and sure, there's potions and concoctions like _şen_ essence aplenty that can help force you into the now — but even if it does technically work, it's just inelegant. Like forcing a square train through a round tunnel and shearing off half the cars. I hate the idea of this one-size-fits-all approach. There's no respect in it, no tenderness -- no intimacy.

Maybe I'm just old-fashioned. Like those people who sneer at typewriters or assembly lines, for all they make things faster, cheaper and easier. But you can't deny it takes away that little personal touch — the part that makes it all human. There's a reason we all still buy hand-made pottery from artisans at market when we can afford to, even when the nobles have factories cranking out cheaper pieces by the shipload.

And old-fashioned or not, I'm smart enough to know you can't torture Vi with pain. She's been through so much — so many beatings, so many rapes, so much roughness and cruelty and violence — that you so much as twist her nipples and she just shuts down without so much as a peep; I've never once heard her cry out in pain. She dissociates at the drop of a hat; I've had to coax her back down to earth with incense and massages for so much as stubbing a toe. But *anticipation* — with constant tickling and stimulus in such a vulnerable part of her body,  you can keep her squirming in torment for hours if you want. You just gotta vary it enough so she doesn't get used it, mix in enough pleasure to trap her in the moment, keep her mind present and focused.

I release her after a minute or so and she immediately digs her teeth into my neck, shoving me back on the bed. "Just think," she murmurs, in between bites, scratching up and down my arms, "how *deep* someone as strong as Lena could hurt you. Just imagine the kind of *pain* he could make you feel—" I convulse and mewl aloud as Vi presses her sharp little teeth deep into my own weak spot, over and over — God, she's learned my tricks, varying the force and timing each bite so I can't predict how much the next one will hurt "—and you'd be totally *helpless,* wouldn't you. He could just hold you down and *torture* you with his *bare hands* for *hours,* and you'd just have to lie there and *take it,"* she continues gleefully. "Ohh, and I could *help.* He could pin your arms and your legs and I could take *alll* the time in the world just *taking you apart,* 