# a conspiracy theory on the true political function of the feminist movement

consider: while proletarian men were safely contained within the capitalist grind and effectively neutered politically, literacy, technological advances, and the availability of birth control were giving proletarian women a dangerous amount of free time to socialize, read, theorize, and potentially organize. so we needed to be neutralized -- and what better way than the tried and tested poison of american individualism? just gently push particular tendencies in the feminist movement in the right direction, paint dehumanizing, exploitative labor as a right that women are being denied, and bam -- you not only trap women in the same system as their men, you open up the other half of the species to industrial exploitation

it's a great scam if you can make it work. for extra points, pull off the same shit you did between black and white workers a few centuries earlier: encourage solanas-style "female nationalism", create minor inequalities as a source of friction, and before you know it the sexes will be at each other's throats, screeching "oppressor" at each other and blaming each other for all the ills in the world, while you sit back and enjoy the profit

congratulations: you now have the modern identity politics movement, a fully self-sustaining derangement that will cripple working-class solidarity for decades to come. now go enjoy a nice glass of chianti and don't forget to beat your servants for failing to lick your boots sufficiently clean. after all -- you've earned it.

imagine a 20th century without a feminist movement. a 20th century where instead women flocked to a communist movement that championed our rights and worked to offer us political education. imagine if women's liberation came not from a movement seeking to champion us and us alone above all others, but a movement dedicated to obliterating the suffering and exploitation of the whole working class, that taught men and women not how to jocky for power over each other but how to understand and support each other -- how to be comrades. a movement that recognized our differing natures and needs and devised a new order to protect and attend to them, that built its ideology around mutual respect and practicality rather than resentment and inferiority complexes. a movement that encouraged love, community, and interdependence rather than the fanatical individualism that's come to define our society. a movement that drew its strength from the experiences and perspectives of men and women, whites and blacks, gays and straights alike, rather than focus myopically on one to the exclusion of all else.

imagine that and suddenly the idea that feminism has been a tool of the bourgeoisie all along makes a hell of a lot more sense.