# on hysteria, homosexuality, chesterton's tattered fence, and where the hell we go from here
% byline an essay by Lexi Summer Hale

something interesting i've noticed is how basically every bi woman i've known, myself included, has had this pattern of flirting with homosexuality but eventually finding a good man and :settling down with him[this isn't just anecdata: all the stats ive been able to find back this up overwhelmingly -- the number of bi women who stay with female partners long term is iirc [less than one percent](CITE) of all women who identify as bi.]. this used to be a meme in queer circles, back before acknowledging it where anyone could hear you got you damned as a Biphobe and thus :Problematic[i lost a friend over this at one point. she/they/whatever ended up accusing me of being a terf -- a *terf!* -- out of nowhere and that was just too crazy and *stupid* for me to handle. wokesters are fun like that.]. lesbians (i think not unreasonably) viewed bisexual women as risky choices for partners, because we have the option of bailing and choosing an easy, normative lifestyle, and almost all of us do eventually take this option.

i used to assume this was about Oppression™, or possibly Patriarchy -- as you do -- and it's certainly *possible* that many or most bi women choose to marry a man simply because they've been culturally programmed to only take relationships with men seriously. if this is so, we'll expect to see a large rise in bisexual women in lesbian relationships over the next century. i will note here however that i was raised by emotionally toxic lesbians (as was my sister), saw marriage as evil basically my entire teenage and young adult life, grew up disliking men to the point of total contempt, fear, and hatred, being subjected to hardcore feminist anti-male brainwashing from a very young age, identified as a political lesbian at one point, and went sjw for a few years. nonetheless, i went on to marry a man (get this, girls: *without even a pre-nup!)* and move to germany to be with him.

in my case, i decided to give the traditional lifestyle a shot because i was miserable and all the gay, bi, poly, and/or trans people i've dated treated me horribly -- and mercifully, i'd found a man with sane, old-fashioned views on gender who shared my revulsion for feminism. i was engaged a month after meeting my husband, married three months later, and am now as his housewife the happiest i'm ever been and the safest, most loved i've ever felt. my sister is still married to her first husband, years later - they're raising a son together now. [it's amazing how many stories like this there are](https://reddit.com/r/RedPillWomen).

i will note, apropos of nothing, that lesbian relationships have the highest reported rates of domestic violence.

so, what exactly is going on? well, i have… let's call it a working hypothesis. if you have dainty liberal sensibilities you're likely to be incredibly offended by it; you may even have good reason. i could still be convinced much of it is nonsense -- it's not an impartial review of :thorough, high-quality science[which alas does not exist, as feminism has made these topics absolutely verboten to study in even the most objective and clinical manner. talk about, say, cognitive sex differences, or -- god forbid -- female submission and masochism (in anything but the extremely limited context of BDSM, coupled with rote reassurances that *it's just sex so it is therefore meaningless and says nothing about the female psyche and onLY A FASCIST MISOGYNIST RACIST NAZI WOULD EVER DARE IMPLY OTHERWISE*), and you will be immediately incinerated by a lightning bolt of international outrage and hate. i'm amazed we're even allowed to know that women suffer from schizophrenia at a higher rate than men -- i suppose it's because feminists probably either feel that it props up their Oppression Cred or contributes to their treasured sense of being fragile, delicate waifs eternally hyper-vulnerable to male thought-violence], but rather heavily biased inferences from the scant available reliable evidence and my own anecdotal experiences, and could be (read: is) strongly influenced by my own beliefs, relationship background, social role orientation, mental illness, and sexuality). i do feel quite strongly about the conclusions i have come to, i do feel like my reasoning is sound -- but all the same, take it with a grain of salt when i suggest that, perhaps, women :are[on average. all of my assertions here are about *averages;* i claim no single universal but variance -- we the human race are a fantastically diverse species, and there are exceptions to every rule. even i, who am about as stereotypically feminine as it is possible to be in most ways, buck the trends here and there; i'm one of the few women alive who's well versed in CS, and one of fewer still with a background in low-level and systems coding. i don't *enjoy* coding any more than the average woman, i expect -- it's hateful and it makes my brain hurt -- but the skills set me apart. everyone diverges in some small way, and i would never try to deny that. it just doesn't make us special unique snowflakes -- i'm still a woman, with everything else than entails, and that gives me more in common than not with all the western women who *don't* stay up into the wee hours of the morning writing horrifying things in C to make their desktop environment 3% more efficient, or [obsessively penning incomprehensibly dense pseudointellectual treatise-screeds on The Decline of the West](/irl) on the internet. to a lesser extent, i share a common sisterhood with every woman alive, because our womanhood shapes the nature of our bodies and brains in ways that give rise to general commonalities of experience, even if they are not alike in every particular.] a *destabilizing force* in relationships (and imo we are a socially destabilizing force more broadly). this is the shakiest part of the thesis; i'm drawing from essentially a wide pool of circumstatial evidence. consider:

 1. women are more prone to men than schizophrenia. consider the observation that borderline personality disorder appears to be "female brain but 100x as intense" - or, to paraphrase the redpill crowd, "all women are a little bit borderline, the way all men are a little bit autistic."
 2. consider also the horrifying phenomenon of the false rape accusation, leveled by a woman either to avenge some imagined slight, garner attention by putting themselves at the center of a left-wing pity crusade, or sometimes for no apparent reason at all. feminists lie, as they so often do, that almost no rape accusations are actually false -- the reality is that between [40%-60%](https://www.glennsacks.com/column.php?id=105) of all rape accusations are [ultimately false](https://avoiceformen.com/sexual-politics/ten-reasons-false-rape-accusations-are-common/)
 3. consider the gruesome [myth of "rape culture"](https://arcdigital.media/the-rape-culture-myth-5e8f968b5c76?gi=3b39f9f25d92) that appears to have sprung from the [fevered imaginations](https://culturalanalysis.net/2018/06/28/why-feminists-enjoy-rape-fantasies/) of western feminists, despite living in the part of the world where the men were the most well-behaved and rape the rarest. (even from the beginning, sensible family women were chiding feminists for trying to "save" middle class white ladies while ignoring people overseas in genuine need of aid and social change).
 4. consider that the gentler and more submissive men are, the more insane and vitriolic the accusations feminists level against them. it is now possible to accuse a man of misogyny merely on suspicion of what goes on in the privacy of his own head, no matter his words or actions.
 5. consider how much of this is sexualized, and how prominently the spectre of rape seems to loom. many early writers, including the first MRA Ernest Belfort Bax, spoke (in the quaintly and hilariously sexist language of 1913) of women as subjugated to and dominated by our sexuality in a way men are not. they argued it permeates (one might say "penetrates," if one were sufficiently crass) our lives and existence, indistinguishable from it, essentialized to our being the way that the practice of Islām is, to a devout Muslim, inseparable from living and breathing -- and in precisely the same way, blinding, distracting, and deluding us from the true experience of things. it is true, of course, that men are frequently and visibly distracted by their sexuality, but this is temporary, momentane, usually superficial, and easily remedied one way or another. we are the opposite: while we are less distracted than men in the moment, while our sexuality is overall *quieter* (thus perhaps lulling us into a false sense of security), our sexuality is not so separable, so discretely defined as a man's -- and as repulsive a way as Bax chose to phrase his argument, i am coming to understand he was getting at the same principle i have been approaching in many of my :discussions on female sexuality[particularly, my theory that lesbians (homofocal bi women are a rounding error and do not merit discussion in this context) are outnumbered by gay men in western culture specifically because intimacy that would seem unquestionably sexual were it between two men is normalized and celebrated for women. it is only the small minority of women who cannot be satisfied with the ample intimacy and touch offered by female friendship, who are incapable of forming functional relationships with men or who are sexually repulsed by the male form, who strongly desire outright intercourse with other women, are compelled to take the mantle of Sappho upon themselves]. as girls we are not taught, as boys are, strict sexual boundaries we must not cross for fear of sinning or impugning our femininity; consequently, our sexuality is more fluid. so it acts invisibly, influencing us subtly in ways we are not skilled in noticing. (i have zero doubt this exact factor has influenced, perhaps warped, the very understanding i am attempting to communicate through this essay.)
 6. consider that more than half of all western women will openly admit to :fantasizing about being raped[unsurprisingly, the rate is dramatically higher among women with… borderline personality disorder!]. consider the degree to which rape is romanticized by female romace novelists writing for a female audience. consider that rape fetishes *had never, not once, historically been documented prior to the modern era*, even by such sex- and perversion-obsessed luminaries as Freud and Jung. consider that BDSM, a hip new rebranding of sexual sadomasochism and submisssion, started becoming popular shortly after it was made socially unacceptable for wives to submit to their husbands -- or for women to become housewives in the first place. consider that among *voluntary BDSM practitioners,* submissives are so overwhelmingly women and dominants so overwhelmingly men that the effect size would raise eyebrows and elicit murmurs of "that can't be right" from any responsible scientist reviewing the data. bar none, gender is *the* determinant of sexual role orientation. here's the kicker: for at least transgender women (i haven't been able to find reliable numbers on trans men -- hit me up if you have some), who were socialized to fill the role of the *opposite* sex from their actual sex, the statistics are identical to their cisgender counterparts. whatever produces this effect is so powerful that it overrides all cultural conditioning and is either determined in :the way that gender itself is[[current scientific consensus](https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/full/10.1002/ijop.12265) suggest a particular timeframe of prenatal hormone exposure that locks in a gender identity, body bedamned, in which case the "transgender" condition would be more properly considered a hormonal intersex condition than anything else] or by subsequent hormone exposure, either endogenous or exogenous (e.g. hormone replacement therapy). this finding *on its face* completely shatters the feminist notion of women being Brainwashed By Patriarchy to submit to men -- in fact, active brainwashing campaigns in the opposite direction (whether feminists brainwashing cis women to be Strong and Independent and to see men as an existential ego-threat to hate and degrade or the oblivious children of transgender parents brainwashing their daughters into believing that they *literally are* men, even when all the physical, social, and environmental correlates of their day-to-day life reinforce this message) is ineffectual at neutering the desire. (entertainingly, this is most damning of all for the even-more-hateful-than-usual brand of extremist feminism peddled by the terfs, who reject the womanhood of trans women even more loudly than they reject the humanity of men.)
 
→ but ultimately, come on - "women are crazy" is the ancient wisdom of like every culture ever. there's a reason this meme exists, and i'm willing to bet it's not :Patriarchy®[A Registered Trademark of Feminazi International Holdings], as it has only grown stronger since the female takeover of western culture -- just as our behavior makes less and less sense. most men have no problem humbly acknowledging their natures, and i for one am not afraid to own up to mine.)
 
consider all this together and i think it paints a pretty damning narrative. something about female nature, with its diffuse, gentle, but omnipresent sexuality, has :for better or for worse[personally, i think it's for the better, and wouldn't have it any other way -- but then again, i'm borderline] become enmeshed with male dominance and violence. when women are allowed access to sufficiently dominant :partners[i say "partners" because this applies to lesbians nearly as much as to straight women -- it's a running joke in the community that there's always a "top shortage," that the dominant women are vastly outnumbered by the submissive ones.], we are comfortable, happy, and feel sexually fulfilled. when we are denied this, when sexual frustration blends with cognitive dissonance induced between our upbringing and our nature by feminist propaganda, nothing short of psychosis seems to emerge. we fabricate rape epidemics out of whole cloth then get worked up about them, substituting the cathexis of rage for the catharsis of climax, accusing our men collectively of fulfilling our fantasies. desperately we act out in ever more outrageous, slanderous, and structurally violent displays against the male sex, out of a perhaps only partially conscious hope that if we misbehave sufficiently the men will come to their senses and put us forcibly back in our place -- in other words, the behavior of a bratty sub writ large. historically, on the small scale this worked -- women will sometimes pick fights with our husbands or boyfriends for the thrill of getting slapped around a bit and the high of making up afterwards (note how many incidents of domestic violence end with neighbors dialing 911 and the man and woman indignantly defending one another to the cops, almost as if it was consensual play misinterpreted by nosy neighbors -- a story as old as the BDSM community). alas, chivalry, one of the signal virtues and most praiseworthy notions of western culture, seems to have short-circuited the rational male response, because when we cried "injustice" and "rape" en masse, men's instinct was to believe us, to believe that they had failed in their duty as our protectors.

so when we asked for voting rights, we got voting rights. when we asked to be freed from the confines of marriage, childrearing, and the home, we were freed from the confines of marriage, childrearing, and the home. when we asked to be freed from the authority of our fathers and husbands, we were freed from the authority of our fathers and husbands. when we asked for the "right" to work outside the home, we were given the "right" to work outside the home. when we asked for equal pay, :we got equal pay[feminist arguments for the continual existence of a gendered pay gap rely on distortions and abuse of statistics that would bring a tear to the eye to the most hardened creationist]. when we asked for the right to abort pregnancies at will, we got the right to abort pregnancies at will. when we asked for an end to slut-shaming, :we got an end to slut-shaming[this one's a bit of a cheat because destigmatizing and normalizing slutty behavior is strongly in the interest of men, and very much counter to the (long-term) interests of women, even if it may feel like a victory because it improved our access to cheap, easy sex (which imo nobody should have in the first place, but that's neither here nor there.) it was rather strange that instead of a pack of pasty, malnourished teenage boys marching through the streets of D.C. with signs reading "Let Bitches Be Hos" all printed in the Minecraft font, we got impassioned teary-eyed feminist advocacy from women who didn't seem to realize they were about to completely destroy the most potent weapon they, their sisters, or their daughters had to secure themselves a committed and financially stable husband. it all comes down to supply and demand. so in this case it wasn't really the men going "oh shit, we aren't supposed to slut-shame? our bad, ladies, we'll totally knock that shit off. we got u" and more "wait hold on the girls aren't gonna slut-shame each other anymore? holy FUCK yes man time to drown in pussy and *never call a chick back ever again*"]. when we asked for More Women In Tech we got obsessive, fanatical campaigns (largely run by men) to get women to enter computer science -- because women kind of hate computer science, and even with the most absurd sexism thought-policing and preference of vaginas over technical skill, we can still only manage rates of around 25% -- despite that women managed to take over most other academic and medical fields (things like pediatrics and gynecology -- i.e. fields that involve *people and children*) without anywhere near such totalitarian measures. women do not want to be in computer science -- but goddammit, the gals have pronounced the S-word, and so the menfolk will fight to the death get Moar Wimmin into the field we hate.

→ if you missed the memo, there is a classic (and experimentally supported) distinction between male and female patterns of interest, where men are primarily interested in "things" and women are primarily interested in people. learning this did a great deal to help me understand and get along with men (particularly, why they don't share many my interests and why i don't share theirs -- and that this is *normal and okay,* and doesn't mean any of us are bad people), and given that level of utility and predictive power, i'm inclined to believe it.

and finally, when we asked for a female president, well— the Great Ghoul of Neoliberalism did win the popular vote by historic margins for a candidate who lost the race. then Donald J. Trump popped his greasily orange head out of the dustbin of history, grinning ear-to-ear like a crazed gnome, and Clown World began in earnest. you win some, you lose some. even still, it's hard to dredge up any other historic battle for rights where any group of people make such tremendous (and in many cases, permanent) gains so very quickly with such a small death toll. we asked for unlimited power and for men to continue bearing all the responsibility -- and by God we got it. Chesterton's Fences were bulldozed by the dozen, and bitch, we are fucking FREE.
 
now, most of these changes (abortion aside) were *bad* things that have worsened and impoverished the lives of women and men alike -- but the men didn't bother to fact-check. they Believed The Victims, took action, and now look where we are. marriage is a dying institution that has lost nearly all its power to keep people together (while gaining a hideous new power to induce terror and mistrust, and given wives total freedom to abandon their husbands at will but leave them with lifelong alimony requirements), single mothers are everywhere (meaning the developmentally disastrous antipattern of children growing up without a role model of their own gender and in general spending too much time alone and uncared for), an epidemic of working women (unmatched by a rise in househusbands and stay-at-home fathers) has cut already falling wages in half, creating a second shift for women on *top* of childcare and housework because one partner's income alone is not sufficient to support a family. economically and culturally, this is disastrous enough.

but we also need to reckon with biology. remember those cognitive effects we talked about? if women are (as i believe likely) more unstable, erratic, and prone to flights of fancy or breakdowns than men, then male-female partnerships complement each other strongly. (remember, men also have weaknesses in areas where women have strengths.) men keep their women stable and :our craziness under control[i'm always reminded of that incident where some chick in a bar went from zero to total public meltdown, crying and physically shaking because she overheard an Evil White Man mildly critique feminism, and her boyfriend had to gently remove her back to their hotel room.], women keep our men pro-social and help them manage their emotions and social ties (among other things). that complementarity fosters greater trust and bonding, and is a motivation to find a partner in the first place - i broadly think it's a good thing, as detrimental to singles as it might be.

→ ofc sometimes the men are borderline too, and then you either both keep each other under control or you both trigger each other in a vicious cycle that leads to the relationship imploding. i will say however that the borderline men i've known haven't been *nearly* so unstable or erratic as the borderline women, myself included.

secondly, you would expect that sexual relationships between two women would be a bit explosive, since there's no man around to keep them grounded in reality - and this is in fact what you see, with DV rates at a stunning 43.8% (only bi women rate higher, at 61.1% - i have no idea why, and would love to hear any guesses; the answer may well poke holes in this hypothesis, but it also may have something to do with the definition of "bi" used by the study), and is completely consistent with my own relationship history. my relationship with my first boyfriend (and then husband) turned out to be the first in my life that was stabilizing and easy. we fit into each other's lives so naturally that when circumstance forced us to live together before we had even established that we were dating, there was zero friction and it was a positive change for both of us. the exact opposite of what i've experienced with queer partners.

however! this also has implications for male homosexual relationships. what they are i'm not precisely sure, because i'm not a man and don't understand men well enough to theorize too deeply about them. but given what we've (tenuously) established so far, you *would* expect that gay male relationships would be less explosive and more stable than lesbian relationships - which is in fact the case. gay men experience the LEAST domestic violence of any group. (i will note that the cultures that have tolerated or institutionalized homosexuality, in every instance i've managed to dig up, allowed or encouraged *male* homosexuality exclusively, and even then, never as a substitute for heterosexual marriage. take from this what you will.) beyond that, i have nothing to offer, tho i'd be curious to hear what men (of all orientations) think of this

→ as usual, i'm not even bringing up nonbinary ppl because, by definition, you cannot say much categorically about the incredibly broad category of Non-Binary People (aside from whose who are just plain old men or women but are uncomfortable admitting this to themselves or others for hideous social reasons that are not at all their fault, whom i do not count as "nonbinary" in the first place) as a whole.

so assuming this is true (big if), does it mean the The Gay is Bad And Wrong? well, that depends on your values. i would go as far as saying that as much as we would prefer to believe otherwise, homosexuality is inarguably at this point not simply an equal replacement for heterosexuality: it has dramatic consequences for the individual and for society more broadly which we cannot sweep under the rug without doing a lot of harm to a lot of people of all sexual orientations.

the more useful question: What Is To Be Done?  personally, reasoning from the data i have available, i think we should (gently) encourage heterosexuality and it should be the norm, because it's well established that it fucking works and (at least for women, and probably in some ways for men also -- certainly for the ones who wish to have their own children) there are unambiguous downsides to doing things differently. same-sex couples certainly have no business raising children of a different sex; fortunately, this is an easy fix, as adoption can simply be regulated and surrogacy restricted (as it should be for many reasons otherwise). but i think at a minimum people should be allowed and encouraged to indulge in same-sex intimacy as a supplement to primary, heterosexual relationships (most people are not monosexual, from what i can tell - they're just heterofocal, not heteroexclusive, and the west is currently operating off a very bad model of human sexuality) - women in particular probably should not be left alone together for too long. i think we should allow, maybe even encourage polycule-style polyamory as long as there's some sex diversity within each group.

but i also think if there's any way we can tolerate homosexuality, any way at all we can build social structures and norms that neutralize the downsides without impinging on the upsides, we should, because doing otherwise also has a reprehensible moral cost of inflicting distress that borders on rape on a great many innocent people who have no choice in whom they're attracted to, and that can only even be considered if the price of meeting their needs cannot be paid without inflicting equal or greater suffering on the majority. whatever suffering it may bring to the individual, this is suffering surely less than would be inflicted by lifelong loneliness or being forced into heterosexual relationships, so i do not think it is valid to consider any harm homosexuality may cause except that to the broader society.

assuming we can implement such social reforms, i have a few preliminary ideas what those new structures might look like (they inform some of my fiction writing) but at that point we're reasoning far off into the abyss, building ever-more tenuous theory on ever-more tenuous theory, and that's a bridge that's likelier to plunge out from underneath as stay sturdy long enough to get you to the other side sanity intact. that way lies Time Cube. and political lesbianism. empiricism must fill in the unknowns first.

% path essays
% to pub/vt/irl/