# jamming the signal: on nonverbal communication strategies, the undermining of human courtship, and the passivity problem
% byline an essy by Lexi Summer Hale
% to pub/vt/irl
% path essays

i actually have a huge problem with the perennial feminist "just because woman wears SEXY DRESS doesn't mean she WANTS TO BE RAPED" argument. because uh, this is not an argument for female sexual autonomy. this is an argument against signalling. and signalling is actually very important.

signalling is how we communicate things about ourselves -- our needs, our mood, our openness, our culture, our belief -- nonverbally to others. body language is one fundamental and crucial means of signalling, but so is dress. body language is useful because it can vary moment to moment; dress is useful because it can be so much less ambiguous than body language. so we use body language to communicate things that vary over short periods of time, and dress to communicate more enduring states.

an attack on a means of signalling is effectively an attempt to deprive that signal of its informational content. this isn't necessarily an intrinsically bad thing; perhaps a particular signal is used as a means to covertly indicate support for a cruel and immoral political movement to other sympathizers, which can be useful tactically and strategically. e.g. "aw yeah there's like ten other skinheads in this bar if i start shit with the cholos who just came in they'll have my back." you can defeat these strategies simply by flooding the band with noise, like that one really bumbling attempt to Own antisemites online where everyone started using written (((echoes))) around things that weren't the names of jews.

however, what if that signal is something valuable? something worth communicating, something that makes our lives easier and better when we can demonstrate it nonverbally? in that case, transmitting the signal when the underlying meaning is not intended (such as, say, wearing a leather miniskirt & croptop out to the bar at night when you're on your own and totally uninterested in male attention) creates real harm by making it less reliable. you don't just inconvenience the people who rely on that signal; you potentially undermine a whole complex of existing cultural strategies (in this case, courtship and mating behaviors), which can contribute to situations where the rules are in flux and unclear, creating confusion and distress (in this case, about how to get laid). making the signal less reliable also makes the existence of the signal less clear; if you're a woman and you see lots of women wearing croptops and leather miniskirts to bars when they're not out cruising for cock, you'd quite reasonably assume that was just a normal thing to wear to the bar and you might do so yourself, contributing to the attrition of the signal's meaning. and once a social signal reaches a certain level of noise, it becomes completely unreliable (in some cases such as this, even dangerous to rely on) and people abandon it altogether. it is much easier to a jam a signal than create one, so jammed signals are often left without replacement.

and jamming a signal also has the inverse effect. when there are clear, well-established means of signalling receptivity to male attention, that often implies you can demonstrate the reverse simply by not transmitting the signal. so for women who really really don't like men, or who already have boyfriends, or only want lesbians to hit on them, you can simply *wear something else* and everyone around you will implicitly understand that. sure, maybe men will still hit on you, but then you know for sure they're creeps instead of innocent guys who just can't figure out the rapidly-changing rules. if you value your ability to be free of men at will, you should support those of us who value our ability to attract men at will (or perhaps both!) -- we just all need to agree on a uniform set of signals and we can ALL get what we want, men included.

"but women should be able to go out in leather miniskirts and croptops without getting SEXUALLY HARASSED by EVIL MEN" uh, why? what is the point of dressing sexily if not to signal availability to and interest in the sex whose tastes you are catering to? ah yes, of course, i forgot, that nebulous, ill-defined concept "sexual expression" that is somehow absolutely crucial to a person's well-being and some kind of fundamental human right, although i'm unaware of any posited mechanism for how lack of it could cause suffering.

but there are many incredibly obvious real-life examples of how undermining culturally important signals *does* hurt people. the example i outlined above, for instance, is currently playing out throughout the west. all the old signalling systems we used for courtship are breaking down — more accurately, being sabotaged. many men have no idea how to go about courting a woman, and if i were in their place i don't think i would either.

the general feminist response to this is, "why are you trying to GUESS what the woman wants like she's some EXOTIC ALIEN who must be INTERPRETED from AFAR instead of SIMPLY ASKED like a HUMAN BEING," which tells us immediately that feminists never get laid and know less about women than your average basement-dwelling incel. feminists treat sex and sexual contact as something to fear and distrust, and their primary concern in life seems to be their ability to avoid it. this is totally unrepresentative of ordinary young women. your average feminist thinks it’s "sexual harassment" when a drunken guy slaps your ass at a party because you wore a short skirt. i think it's fun, and i think women should be allowed to have fun, not be forced to live under <i>Shāri‘ah</i> law where people who publicly admit the existence of fun are stoned to death for <i>zinah</i>.

feminists also fail to understand that women don't tend to give straightforward answers to questions like "hey wanna fuck?" most of us have an ingrained passivity that makes pursuing men difficult, which is just as well because men generally don't like to be pursued. this is no doubt a large part of the reason why clothing became such an important sexual receptivity signifier -- note that it is much more so for women than for men. it's important for a man to be able to to easily identify the women in a crowd who want to be pursued, especially nowadays that accidentally flirting with a feminist can destroy your career and potentially leave you on the sex offender registry. women, by contrast, don't need nonverbal signals from men -- in normal, functioning societies men will announce their interest verbally, and the only critical dress-signal is the presence of a wedding ring, which informs us the man is a cheating scoundrel to be politely, but firmly rejected.

but someone has to start the interaction. for both cultural and, most likely, hardwired psychological reasons, this is generally going to be the man.

i don't want my body to be desexualized, i don't want my womanhood defined by the exclusion of men, and i wish, for the love of gods and men alike, we could all stop pretending that bit of playful touch is the most direly serious thing in the world that needs to be the subject of criminal jurisprudence. if "respect" means men giving every woman a wide birth, speaking only when spoken to, never making eye contact, and keeping their hands to themselves at all times, i don't want men to respect me. flirting and courtship are normal, healthy parts of human sexuality, and human sexuality is something to be enjoyed and celebrated, not angsted over endlessly or taken so deadly serious. classical pagan societies understood this; feminists are just the latest iteration of the (psychologically, if not necessarily liturgically) christian moral crusaders who want to abolish the orgasm, obliterate every revelry, and deny humanity all pleasures of the flesh: to deprive us of the colors of this world in favor of an illusory promise of heavenly bliss in the next (or, as the feminists spell it, "self-actualization"). your life is yours to waste, but you don't get to force others to join you in your self-abasement. this may be shocking to the xenofeminist school, but actually, some of us value our humanity.

in conclusion, if you don’t want sexual attention from men, don’t invite it.
