*ESTEEMED READER:*
*It is our sumptuous pleasure and highest possible honor to present to you this article penned by famed woman of letters her Sublime Magnificence the Dame Starling Stoneweaver, by grace of her Serene Radiance the Tenth Empress the most eminent knight-luminary of the Historic Order of the Weathered Redoubt. There can be no doubt that the article which below graces our humble and unworthy pages will most splendidly enrich your worldly wisdom.*
# The Incident at Willowdale
% by D. Starling Stoneweaver, H.O. W.R.

Let me begin with an apology. Those of you familiar with my work might well expect this missive to continue in the manner of my last, and I beg ten and ten thousand pardons that I must disappoint you. I bring you no historical curiosities to delight the mind nor renew the imagination. For it is upon no matter of cheer nor whimsy that I write today, but upon one of grief and scandal. It is not lightly that I seek to trouble your minds with so dark a missive, and I have undertaken to do so only because a grave urgency is upon us, one that has too long escaped the concern it rightly merits. Ordinarily I might encourage the young and delicate maidens among you to turn their eyes elsewhere and leave this letter for their more worldly elders; unfortunately, such luxuries we cannot at this juncture afford. Call forth your servants to ready the smelling salts if you are of fragile and innocent mien -- but I beg you, do not spare me your regard.

You have all heard by now, without doubt, of the incidents seven moons ago at Myrtlefen, Sisters' Watch, Morningglade, and -- of course -- Willowdale. The Frontier we abut is by nature a wild and atavistic volume, as yet untamed by the stern law of her Radiance our Empress, full of terrors and replete with violence, but what came to pass at these settlements is a matter of such special concern that news has reached as far afield as Carnelian herself. The blood of our brave common folk ran bright across the pages of every periodical to be found in the worlds along the Fringe for so long after the fact that scarce a lettered soul among us could be unfamiliar with the matter, and justly so.

I would be remiss in my duties as a scholar of galactic history if I did not first address that question which has weighed heavy upon the minds of all, from the most learned abbess to the roughest tavern-mistress. Who were these men who dared bring insult upon her Radiance's peace? What must we make of their barbarous garb, their war-paint, upon skin and hair as red as yours or mine, their peculiar dialect -- their all-too-familiar scalp-tattoos?

Rumors, as always, abound. I myself have isolated two particular strains of thought that have emerged from the chaos surrounding the raids. The first, and without a doubt most tempting explanation posits that these men were merely the usual masculist scoundrels, possessed inexplicably of void-ships and, most blasphemously of all, firearms, having taken to the Heavens to emulate the Patriarchs of old. Simple thugs who, however anomalous their crimes, will ultimately succumb to the flames of the Empress' justice and leave us once again in peace. Comforting, is it not? A soothing tale that would grant us all the luxury of restful sleep beneath the thousand suns. Who among us, in the wake of these atrocities, would not so yearn to believe, and write away these horrors as a mere fluke of misfortune?

As much as I would like to reassure you that this is precisely the case, the facts restrain me.

Those of you familiar with my work know that I am a scholar of our deepest past, of the blood-spattered but glorious days in which the First Empire was newly hewn from steel and sinew and sisterly love. So as you might imagine, the second rumor -- which I am certain we are all by now well acquainted with -- piqued immediately my interest and my worry. Immediately I took leave of my quaint and charming observatory and chartered a void-ship spinward, bent upon investigating to the best of my ability, the better to secure our august people against what aggression may come from the uncharted depths of the void: in fact, I was there in what remained of Morningglade on that fateful day when Willowdale fell.

While I am not primarily a philologist, one cannot long hold a fascination with matters historic without delving eventually into affairs of the tongue. Many a wise scholar there is among the Learned of the Realm who has made it her life's work to unravel the mysteries of our ancient speech, and owing wholly to the tireless and ingenious work they have undertaken, total confidence now exists in our estimation of the state and form of Zia Ţai as early as nine hundred years hither. I claim not one whit of credit for this undertaking; I merely studied betimes under the tutelage of true master philologists. Nevertheless, I do not think I overestimate myself when I say I have a modest grasp of the early tongue of our ancestors, and it has been of great use to me in my own investigations.

Any among you who has had the bitter misfortune to cross the path of a masculist thug in the flesh will note that they speak -- upon those rare occasions that their brains, though enfeebled by the foul milk of the vine and sullied by the masculine humours, summon sufficient sparks of wit to impel more than mere spittle from their tongues -- a strange and uncategorizable dialect. It brings me total disgust to inform you that these filthy brigands and rapists have taken the noble work of our great philologists for their own. Reasoning as they do that the Zia Ţai we speak today was in some fashion "corrupted" by the centuries-long dominance of Imperial womanhood, they seek to regress to a more pure and masculine state they imagine the language once held.

A quick-witted young damsel by the name of Tanager there was at Morningglade, who in the first moments of the raid found the bravery and wisdom to secrete herself away where the attackers could not find her. When I arrived in what remained there of the settlement, I found her in the care of neighbors who were by the blessings of mercurial fate occupied in trade at a distant village upon the day of the attack. Young Tanager was a tattered and broken thing, though not a bruise showed upon her fair features, and what heartless creature could thereby judge her -- her mother unseen since the day of the raid, her father's slashed and desecrated body the first thing to greet her eyes upon prising herself loose from the wreckage of her childhood home. When I first set eyes upon her she could not so much as speak, and refused to let herself be nourished by even the barest morsel; it took us a number of days even to coax the first word from her lips, much less induce her to break fast.

But readers -- when at last poor Tanager spoke, our work in salvaging her sanity was repaid sevenfold. From her hiding place she heard a great many things, and amid the screams and cries of the dying, the pleading of women and the cannonades of rifle-fire, she overheard the raiders speaking among themselves. Fortunate were we, for her ears were keen, and perhaps the flame of terror and suffering scorched the memories deep into her soul, for, a-shudder with the recollection of it, she spoke aloud three utterances which were at once alien to my ears -- and eerily familiar.

With a cry and an oath I took my leave, sprinting swiftly for the road. "To Westbrook!" commanded I of my driver; "to the telegraph office anon!" and with all due dispatch we did away. Arriving that night in Westbrook I penned an urgent telegram to my dear friend the master philologist at the Academy of Seven Silver Boughs, on the distant world of *Bashful Nightshade at the Apex of Heaven's Garden*. Verily, many eyebrows did rise among the clerks as they passed my missive among them, and rose higher still when I dashed a handful of silver sovereigns on the countertop and bade them deliver my message -- and any reply -- with the most pressing of haste. No questions then did they ask.

I was wakened the next morning in my room at the rustic but respectable Dragon's Beard tavern by a fearsome pounding upon the door, and when I threw it back, a wild-eyed messenger boy there stood in company livery, panting for breath. "For you, mistress," he explained, brandishing a telegram, and pausing only to bestow upon him a token gold coin for his exertion, I snatched the paper and took immediately to my desk.

The message was precisely as I had feared.

The words in which the Morningglade raiders spoke, esteemed reader, were not the rough cant of the masculists, nor the elegant and bountiful tongue of our beloved Tenth Empress. This I knew at once. But a theory had quickly implanted itself in my thoughts. The nature and shape of every tongue changes from time to time, as a girl changes to a woman, or a boy to a man, and as any woman who has travelled much far afield of her home must know, each region develops its own peculiarities of speech. Nowhere is this curious effect more pronounced than in the gaps between worlds, which, kept from sisterly communion by the ghastly distances of the Void and great expense of star-travel, always seem to birth their very own dialects, greatly distinguished from the pure tongue of Carnelian. So I thought to myself: what form might Zia Ţai take, had its progenitor tongue been cut off wholly from the Imperial aegis? What if a parallel tongue were to develop in the darkness of space — in the closeness of patchwork ships —

— and the foulness of counsel-chambers thick with the stench of opium-smoke?

The master philologist of the Academy concurred. Upon the arrival of my missive, dear Passerine took immediately to her books, concocting contortions of the tongue to develop a link between Zia Ţai's ancient precursor adopted as the cant of the masculists on the one part, and the strange new tongue evinced in young Tanager's report on the other. Not only did she deem the link plausible, but even suggested a number of potential translations -- none of which are fit to reproduce in so worthy a journal as this, read as it is by refined elders and blushing maidens alike, but all of which reaffirmed my theory with frightening ease.

The raiders at Morningglade can have been no masculists. Were they this reviled but common foe, their speech would have been immediately recognizable to me as the Dzuang Ţai, or perhaps a common modern tongue. This rules out the First Rumor. So what of the Second?

The Second Rumor paints an altogether darker and unsettling picture. From the very beginning of the Empire there have been whispers, old traders' tales suggesting that the victory of the Seven Sisters was not, as long fancied by the honorable masses, complete. That a handful of ships might have escaped their subjugation and purging by fire of the Patriarchs' foul kind, to flee into the darkness of unknown space outside the grasp of the First Empress' avenging justiciars. So when the wild barbarians descended upon our settlements (may their blood be repaid ten thousand times more), it should not have surprised anyone that some earnest rumor-mongers leapt to the obvious conclusion: "the Patriarchs are back."

My research supports this hypothesis.

I must stress that I cannot answer this question definitively. The vast depths of history and the sheer breadth of time that has passed without hide nor hair of the Patriarchs having surfaced makes the question of their succession totally unapproachable; it may forever be shrouded in myth and legend. But everything my investigations uncovered seems to hint at this far more dramatic possibility. Of late, we have delved deep into the orbits of distant suns, and it seems to me not implausible that we might at last have stumbled upon the _pien şai_'s winter lair and roused him from from his hibernation.

Whatever the case, one thing was without doubt: we were facing a foe unlike any we have vanquished in recent centuries.  There was only one thing to be done. Returning at once to the telegram office, I bade my friend the philologist make haste to join me at once. A short but choppy flight to high orbit later, I delivered my instructions to the crew I had hired, to gasps and cries of disbelief. A long and arduous voyage lay before us indeed, but there was no other honorable course -- and the crew was swiftly pacified by the simple expedient of a handful of platinum. Our course was set: we were bound for Carnelian, for the Court of the Empress.

I will not bore you with the irrelevant details of our travels. Suffice it to say we made goodly speed, and arrived in the Inner Traverse not four moons after we determined to reach the Core. My dear friend the master philologist joined us at Ruby, and on reaching the territories of the Solarchess Orchardblossom (whose niece the peerless natural philosopher Dame Kite has long been a favored correspondent of mine), once apprised of our mission, her Inestimably Spectacular Beneficence saw fit, with her usual generosity and humbling grace, to equip our vessel with a hyperdrive and the most agile jump-diviners yet produced in her foundries, thus shortening greatly the duration of our travels. Indeed, the Dame Kite herself, bound for another of her philosophic expeditions rimward into the barbarous Eastern Territories, travelled with us for a time, and we luxuriated in her stupendous company, to say nothing of the staunch protection of her flotilla. When we parted ways at Silvered Prism, we were within sight of the Core.

It was not without some sorrow that I bade farewell to my crew, of whom I had developed a certain fondness, and readily secured myself and my companions seats aboard a liner to Crimson Petal, straight across the border. (Knighthood is not without its privileges.) The fortnight we spent in transit to Carnelian was a welcome respite from the rigors of the Fringe and Traverse, and we took great solace in the many wonders of the Core. Of these, I shall say only that if the glories of the Celestial Queendom are even half so grand, I will go to my death of deaths with a smile on my lips and a song in my heart.

When we arrived at Carnelian, we were quickly granted an audience at Court, and within days of our arrival, having worked in haste to complete the necessary ablutions and purifying rites, were brought before the Tenth Empress Herself. As we were led into the Twilight Chamber, our eyes at last fell upon Her Radiance. There She sat, the divine and rightful ruler of all Haven, clad in garments of finest silk and surrounded by the most eminent potentates of the Realm, Her beauty so tremendous that the most sublime of flowers would wilt in shame and jealousy to meet Her penetrating gaze even for the briefest moment. The distant sun sat upon Her brow and still She outshone it. Esteemed reader, I admit freely that I have never felt so small and wretched a creature as I did in that very moment; I felt as though I deserved only to be stripped and lashed there on the floor of the hall for daring to contaminate the presence of so exalted a being as She. To be humiliated and thrown into the darkest of dungeons would have felt an act of surest justice, if not mercy.

Nevertheless, such intimate matters could not be permitted to outweigh the urgency of our task, which concerned, after all, the very safety and integrity of Her insuperable domain, so Passerine Nightweaver and I found within us the strength to plead our case before Her, laying out the facts as we had determined them, and calling upon Her to adjudge them. No sooner had our great Empress, infinite in generosity and good-will, heard our evidence than She sprang from Her throne and summoned immediately Her highest generals, bidding us join Her at Her war-council. Dame-Generals of the Imperial Guard soon surrounded us, towering over even Her Radiance (their bodies hewn as they are from mortal flesh by Her divine will into living weapons, in face of whose awesome power sedition and heresy will ever crumble when it may dare to menace the good people of this most righteous realm), their cloaks glittering with the magnificence of their office. Red-robed magnates came and went, orbiting about us to deliver a dizzying array of questions whose significance remains beyond my petty comprehension, their every word dripping with wisdom so vast and intimidating that it stole away all control of our speech. We found ourselves answering immediately, our tongues moving almost of themselves, and yet our answers seemed to please them. A punitive expedition was swiftly organized, in a show of such splendid and agile coordination as any living being has ever seen. Then the Empress turned to me -- and Her words burned themselves into my psyche.

"Dame Starling," spake She, voice mellifluous and enchanting, every word like a chorus of songbirds joining as one to greet the rising sun, "I bid you away to the Fringe at the Dame-General's side, that you might lend the force of your cunning to this undertaking. You are she best equipped to determine truly the nature of this new threat"

I fell then, awestruck, to my knees. "The profane refuse of my wretched being could never be suffered so to demean these august persons nor this noble undertaking by so selfishly accepting such an insuperable honor as I do not deserve," I blurted out, "but if Her Radiance does command it, I will comply with the surest of joy."

The Empress smiled. "I do command it," said She.

Then a sudden silence came over the room, and as I looked up, my gaze caught upon a figure striding towards the table, her black cloak fluttering about her ankles, a shining silver brooch across her neck engraved with the sun-and-dagger emblem of House Moonwatcher. Her every movement so radiated the most fearsome sort of confidence and power that I was struck dumb, frozen where I stood, as if caught in the very shadow of the Empress Herself. It was not until she threw back her hood with a lazy flick of her hand, baring her sharp and elegant features, her short shock of Khmai-white hair, that I realized just what this woman was, and in that moment I understood why even the Dame-Generals quailed at her approach.

"Inquisitor," said the Empress, Her ethereal voice seizing the silence. "I trust you know what to do."

The Inquisitor bowed low with a grand yet disciplined motion. Through her silver eyes shone forth a coldness deeper and darker than the chill of the deepest void, and the corner of her lips curled into a faint, contemptuous smirk. I saw the glint of a blade beneath her robes. "It will be my pleasure, your Radiance," said she, in a voice that sent shivers through my very soul. The Empress smiled again.


- daughter of Dame's noble friend taken by raiders
- armada "liberates" the kidnapped noble women; none of them want to return to the empire; beg the General to spare their masters the pyre.
- interrogations all around
- rumors of women running off to join the raiders confirmed, intensely scandalous
- general gives in and sends some of the raider men to labor camps instead
- raiders have "new weapon" patriarchs never did; women never cooperated willingly before, only under duress, never any bonds of affection. "this weapon must be understood before it can be further used against our young and naive daughters -- or heaven forfend, perhaps even us"